v6.16.0 (#10503)
mui/mui-x: CHANGELOG.md

All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.
See [Conventional Commits](https://conventionalcommits.org) for commit guidelines.

## 6.15.1
_Sep 28, 2023_

We'd like to offer a big thanks to the 9 contributors who made this release possible. Here are some highlights ✨:

> - 🧰 Fix header filters menu auto closing on render (#10483) @MBilalShafi

Reviewer: Maybe you have ideas on how to improve the wording here?
cc @noraleonte
```suggestion
- 💫 Add customization playground (#9581) @noraleonte

  You can play around with style customization options on the [Date Picker documentation](https://mui.com/x/react-date-pickers/date-picker/#customization).
  We are thrilled to hear your feedback about this functionality!

- 🧰 Fix header filters menu auto closing on render (#10483) @MBilalShafi
```

Reviewer 2: > Add customization playground for the `DatePicker`

Maybe add in the title that it's for the pickers (or the DatePicker), so that grid users can just ignore it without diving deeper
I guess it's a general rule, reading the 1st line should always make clear which package we are talking about

Reviewer 3: LGTM! 💯 Thanks for including this! I agree with Flavien that we should mention that it's for the pickers 👍

Reviewer: I've updated the suggestion to be more clear. 👌

Author: IMO wording is fine and transports a excitement! 🚀 
WDYT @noraleonte ?

> - 🌳 Do not try to focus a collapsed node when re-focusing the TreeView (#10422) @flaviendelangle

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- 🌳 Fix focusing of a collapsed node when the TreeView is re-focused (#10422) @flaviendelangle
```

Reviewer 2: I don't think this is worth highlighting, it's a minor bug fix

You can replace it with the locales, we always highlight them

Reviewer: Also, a nitpick: Have these emojis ever been used for highlights? 🤔 
WDYT about sticking to what we already had "on rotation"? 🤔

Reviewer 3: I agree that consistency is important here 👍 But I kind of like having a tree emoji for treeview features 🤔

Reviewer: Fair point. 👌 
However, if we agree with Flavien and remove it from the highlights, we can keep this emoji for later highlights. 👍

Reviewer 3: Sure! I was just pointing out that I like the little tree. Let's remove this particular highlight and keep that in mind for the future

Author: > Also, a nitpick: Have these emojis ever been used for highlights? 🤔 WDYT about sticking to what we already had "on rotation"? 🤔

Oh, I was under the impression that the docs, l10n and bugfixes all have assigned emojis, but the rest are up for what fits best! :D

Reviewer: I'm not sure if there are "assigned" emojis, just wanted to signal that we usually use a bit different ones. 👌 
It totally makes sense to add a nice emoji if it makes sense (like the 🌳  for TreeView and a 🧹  for the clearable behavior). 🙌

- 🎯 Fix column headers scroll when theme scoping is used (#10437) @cherniavskii
- 🐞 Bugfixes
- 📚 Documentation improvements

### Data Grid

#### `@mui/x-data-grid@6.15.1`

- [DataGrid] Fix column headers scroll when theme scoping is used (#10437) @cherniavskii
- [DataGrid] Rename `global` to `globalScope` due to Jest issue (#10470) @romgrk
- [l10n] Improve Russian (ru-RU) locale (#10464) @NKodos

> - [l10n] Improve Russian (ru-RU) locale on the DataGrid (#10407) @NKodos

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- [l10n] Improve Russian (ru-RU) locale (#10407) @NKodos
```

Author: I did group it with the item above and just added the second PR to the parantheses. Is that ok?

#### `@mui/x-data-grid-pro@6.15.1` [![pro](https://mui.com/r/x-pro-svg)](https://mui.com/r/x-pro-svg-link 'Pro plan')

Same changes as in `@mui/x-data-grid@6.15.1`, plus:
- [DataGridPro] Fix header filters menu auto closing on render (#10483) @MBilalShafi

#### `@mui/x-data-grid-premium@6.15.1` [![premium](https://mui.com/r/x-premium-svg)](https://mui.com/r/x-premium-svg-link 'Premium plan')

Same changes as in `@mui/x-data-grid-pro@6.15.1`.

### Date Pickers

#### `@mui/x-date-pickers@6.15.1`

> - [pickers] refactor dayOfWeekFormatter (#10345) @michelengelen

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- [pickers] Refactor `dayOfWeekFormatter` (#10345) @michelengelen
```

#### `@mui/x-date-pickers-pro@6.15.1` [![pro](https://mui.com/r/x-pro-svg)](https://mui.com/r/x-pro-svg-link 'Pro plan')

Same changes as in `@mui/x-date-pickers@6.15.1`.

### Charts / `@mui/x-charts@6.0.0-alpha.13`

- [charts] Share upfront future Pro features (#10465) @oliviertassinari

### Tree View / `@mui/x-tree-view@6.0.0-alpha.5`

- [TreeView] Do not try to focus a collapsed node when re-focusing the TreeView (#10422) @flaviendelangle

> - [TreeView] Fix typing of the Multiple generic (#10478) @flaviendelangle

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- [TreeView] Fix the typing of the Multiple generic (#10478) @flaviendelangle
```

### Docs

- [docs] Correct the typo in data grid api docs (#10477) @MBilalShafi

> - [docs] Customization playground (#9581) @noraleonte

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [docs] Add customization playground (#9581) @noraleonte
```

All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.
See [Conventional Commits](https://conventionalcommits.org) for commit guidelines.

> ## 6.16.0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 6.16.0

```

Author: Fixed that already! 🙇🏼

_Sep 28, 2023_

We'd like to offer a big thanks to the 9 contributors who made this release possible. Here are some highlights ✨:

> - 🎁 Added `clearable` prop to DatePickers (#9095) @noraleonte

Reviewer 3: Maybe you have ideas for improving the phrasing, but maybe we should detail this a bit? 🤔  Also, it's not exactly a prop on the Pickers, but rather a behavior extended from a prop on the field 

cc. @LukasTy @flaviendelangle 

```suggestion
- 🎁 Add `clearable` behavior to the Pickers (#9095) @noraleonte

The Pickers now have an out-of-the box implementation for clearing the field value. You can see the documentation for this behavior on the [Date Picker documentation](https://mui.com/x/react-date-pickers/date-picker/#clearing-the-value).
```

Reviewer: Yes, the suggestion totally makes sense.
I've updated the suggestion to have two spaces for the explanation sentence, which will end up grouping it together with the same list item. 👌

- 🚀 Fix header filters menu auto closing on render (#10483) @MBilalShafi
- 🎯 Fix column headers scroll when theme scoping is used (#10437) @cherniavskii
- 💫 Add customization playground (#9581) @noraleonte

You can play around with style customization options on the [Date Picker documentation](https://mui.com/x/react-date-pickers/date-picker/#customization).

We are thrilled to hear your feedback about this functionality!

> 

Reviewer: Could we move this to the top or after the first detailed highlight?
We try to put the more emphasized highlights with detailed explanation at the top.

- 🌍 Improve Russian (ru-RU) locale
- 🐞 Bugfixes
- 📚 Documentation improvements

### Data Grid

#### `@mui/x-data-grid@6.16.0`

- [DataGrid] Fix column headers scroll when theme scoping is used (#10437) @cherniavskii
- [DataGrid] Rename `global` to `globalScope` due to Jest issue (#10470) @romgrk
- [l10n] Improve Russian (ru-RU) locale (#10464 and #10407) @NKodos

#### `@mui/x-data-grid-pro@6.16.0` [![pro](https://mui.com/r/x-pro-svg)](https://mui.com/r/x-pro-svg-link 'Pro plan')

Same changes as in `@mui/x-data-grid@6.16.0`, plus:
- [DataGridPro] Fix header filters menu auto closing on render (#10483) @MBilalShafi

#### `@mui/x-data-grid-premium@6.16.0` [![premium](https://mui.com/r/x-premium-svg)](https://mui.com/r/x-premium-svg-link 'Premium plan')

Same changes as in `@mui/x-data-grid-pro@6.16.0`.

### Date Pickers

#### `@mui/x-date-pickers@6.16.0`

- [pickers] Implement `clearable` field behavior (#9095) @noraleonte
- [pickers] Refactor `dayOfWeekFormatter` (#10345) @michelengelen

#### `@mui/x-date-pickers-pro@6.16.0` [![pro](https://mui.com/r/x-pro-svg)](https://mui.com/r/x-pro-svg-link 'Pro plan')

Same changes as in `@mui/x-date-pickers@6.16.0`.

> ### Charts / `@mui/x-charts@6.0.0-beta.0`

Reviewer: I believe @flaviendelangle mentioned that he wants to release beta of the tree view instead. 🤔 
```suggestion
### Charts / `@mui/x-charts@6.0.0-alpha.13`
```

#### `@mui/x-data-grid@6.16.0`

- [DataGrid] Fix column headers scroll when theme scoping is used (#10437) @cherniavskii
- [DataGrid] Rename `global` to `globalScope` due to Jest issue (#10470) @romgrk
- [l10n] Improve Russian (ru-RU) locale (#10464 and #10407) @NKodos

#### `@mui/x-data-grid-pro@6.16.0` [![pro](https://mui.com/r/x-pro-svg)](https://mui.com/r/x-pro-svg-link 'Pro plan')

Same changes as in `@mui/x-data-grid@6.16.0`, plus:

- [DataGridPro] Fix header filters menu auto closing on render (#10483) @MBilalShafi

#### `@mui/x-data-grid-premium@6.16.0` [![premium](https://mui.com/r/x-premium-svg)](https://mui.com/r/x-premium-svg-link 'Premium plan')

Same changes as in `@mui/x-data-grid-pro@6.16.0`.

### Date Pickers

#### `@mui/x-date-pickers@6.16.0`

- [pickers] Implement `clearable` field behavior (#9095) @noraleonte
- [pickers] Refactor `dayOfWeekFormatter` (#10345) @michelengelen

#### `@mui/x-date-pickers-pro@6.16.0` [![pro](https://mui.com/r/x-pro-svg)](https://mui.com/r/x-pro-svg-link 'Pro plan')

Same changes as in `@mui/x-date-pickers@6.16.0`.

### Charts / `@mui/x-charts@6.0.0-beta.0`

- [charts] Share upfront future Pro features (#10465) @oliviertassinari

> ### Tree View / `@mui/x-tree-view@6.0.0-alpha.5`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Tree View / `@mui/x-tree-view@6.0.0-beta.0`
```
